echo \nActive threads\n
info threads
echo \nBacktraces\n
thread apply all bt
echo \nSource code for frame 0\n
list
echo \nDisassembly of frame 0\n
disassemble
echo \nRegisters\n
info reg
echo \nSource code for frame 1\n
up
list
echo \nDisassembly of frame 1\n
disassemble
echo \nSource code for frame 2\n
up
list
echo \nDisassembly of frame 2\n
disassemble
echo \nSource code for frame 3\n
up
list
echo \nDisassembly of frame 3\n
disassemble
echo \nSource code for frame 4\n
up
list
echo \nDisassembly of frame 4\n
disassemble
echo \nSource code for frame 5\n
up
list
echo \nDisassembly of frame 5\n
disassemble
echo \nSource code for frame 6\n
up
list
echo \nDisassembly of frame 6\n
disassemble
echo \nSource code for frame 7\n
up
list
echo \nDisassembly of frame 7\n
disassemble
echo \nSource code for frame 8\n
up
list
echo \nDisassembly of frame 8\n
disassemble
echo \nSource code for frame 9\n
up
list
echo \nDisassembly of frame 9\n
disassemble
echo \nSource code for frame 10\n
up
list
echo \nDisassembly of frame 10\n
disassemble
echo \nEnd of core inspection\n\n\n\n
